# learning
first try

I work in a very small IT department. One director, one network guy (my husband), one report writer and me. We are home grown, home schooled in the IT world for the most part (except for our director who is strictly a network guy himself). The internet is our lifeline to learning what we need to know to do our jobs. 

I may not know the proper techy lingo, but I have been getting done what needs done for almost 25 years. I had a paralegal degree and a husband who needed to move to the country to take care of his parents, so here we are in the middle of the woods at the lake. This is not at all a bad thing; we don't get rich, but we are happy and that is what is important.

My job description here is pretty much taking care of anything I feel I can handle and just recently being able to use consultants to handle anything else we may need here. After about 15 years of nothing new being implemented, the use of consultants has proven to be more of a necessity as the desire to move forward has finally become a priority thanks to a new CFO. Most interest is on the reporting side for now, porting data over from Oracle to SQL Server and using SSRS, SSIS, etc...long term is to move everything over to SQL Server.

I have to say that I am not comfortable with being on the outside looking in and not knowing how the new technology is being implemented as I am moving more toward a project manager/analyst than a developer. We had a flurry of projects over the last 2 years or so that I have no idea how they were designed and I really want to figure this all out.

I had been advised by a consultant who used to work on a couple of our projects that I should begin with Dapper .Net and that is why I have downloaded GitHub. I was told we have a standard .net & sql server setup with a library called dapper used for the object mapping. The consultants wrote a WPF Application, a .Net MVVM website and a Windows service using .NET, C#, Telerik, WCF Dapper, LINQ, Caliburn Micro, Enterprise Framework Bootstrap, Kendo UI. All of which are new to me (and may not be comma separated properly, time will tell). I taught myself Classic ASP, jscript, Visual Basic, XML, XSL, use of dataIslands,  XML DOM, ADO and  in order to maintain a system put in place (not by me) back in 1999. Our main application is an IIS website running Oracle database on Linux, a 3 tier solution used mainly to track inventory, orders and shipments.  All was cutting edge back then, but I have come to learn the 1999 now non-standard practices left us married to Microsoft browser. So as you see I have a long way to go as we slowly transition and rebuild. I am sure that the process will be similar, it's just wading through the new terms and tools.

So I begin....

Day 1 - Keep in mind I am still working my "day job" and it stays a priority. As I beginning to play with GitHub and follow some of the basic tutorials, I managed to fork the Dapper .net into my repository. Not really sure what I am to do with it yet as I have no source code from any of our projects (which would probably be overkill anyway). Just doing some research on the internet it seems this is basically a means to get data from the database into variables for another step to consume. I think I have the concept, but the practicality of it leaves me wondering how to get started. Forking a sample project seems to be my best option. 

Day 2-3 - I find myself needing to see more of the whole picture before I can understand more of the individual parts. I get the basic concepts, but putting the pieces together is slow going. Looking at some tutorials around WPF pulled me into areas of Visual Studio I have yet to need to use. Until now it has been only a glorified text editor and debugger for me with many capabilities until now not necessary in my day to day responsibilities. Probably only necessary now from a personal perspective, but I will keep at it. I did manage to complete a tutorial or two and dive a little deeper into the new concepts being used here. I am trying to relate each new piece with the legacy counterpart I am used to using and it seems like what used to do completely from front to back is now divided into smaller compartmentalized pieces that do not require knowledge of what it connects to or provides a head start with templates and defaults based on objects put in play. I find a disconnect moving from heads down text typing style to the "mousing" around multitudes of property settings and menus scattered around multiple access locations. Very circular and less straight forward. It think I need to find a tutorial that uses WPF and dapper together.
